# javascript

javascript foundations

1.why languages?

computer -> #RAM and #SSD

# RAM -> current software running ,ram does not understand programming language (high level language like c,cpp,java,javascript,c#) so only 0 and 1 goes inside the ram and those 0s,1s (low level language) and comes after compilation and it is done by compilers
# SSD -> stores software,images,videos

# compiler -> compilers convert high level langauge into low level language like 0s and 1s

/*
c++ code 
#include <stdio.h>
using namespace std;

int main(){
    cout << "hello world" << endl;
    return 0;
}
*/

# compilers compile this code into file containing 0s and 1s and if we click that file that goes into RAM and it is executed.

2.interpreted vs compiled language.

# complier => high level language compiled into low level language then it is executed ex c, cpp ,java
# interpreter => high level language is executed line by line (means it will convert 0s and 1s line by line)  ex javascript , python

# comiler 
# 1. first need to compile then need to run
# 2. usually do not compile if there is an error in the code

# interpreter 
# 1. usually go line by line
# 2. can run partially if the error come later

3.why js >> other languages in some use-cases.
4.strict vs dynamic languages.
# strict -> more strict about code (gives compile time error)
# dynamic (loosly typed) -> not strict that much  (gives run time error)
5.single threaded nature of js.
# it will use single core of a  machine at one time, js can only run one programe at a time more practically , js runs line by line and only one line runs at a time.
# bad choice for scalable systems
# there is a way to make it uses all cores of your machine 
6.simple primitives in JS (number,string,booleans).
7.complex primitives in JS (Number,String).
8.functions in javascript.
9.problem solving.
10.callback functions,event loop,callback queue,asynchronous programming.
11.callback hell and promises.
